# BondGraph_PCT
Bond graph model of the proximal epithelial tubule
Using Bond Graph modelling methodology, this study presents a novel approach to modelling ion and volume transport in the renal nephron's proximal convoluted tubule (BG-PCT). By integrating thermodynamic processes into circuit theory via the framework of network thermodynamics, we demonstrate the ability to analyze complex systems with greater accuracy and efficiency.
To facilitate the modelling of complex systems, we employ a modular approach, breaking down the system into manageable pieces. This work defines two modular subsystems: the resistive module representing the membrane and the capacitive module representing solution compartments. Each module is analyzed based on thermodynamic processes, and all modules are reintegrated into circuit theory in network thermodynamics.


Our proposed model comprises solutions in four fluid compartments bounded by five distinct membranes. Based on known membrane compositions, we consider five ionic species and ten membrane transporters distributed on the different membranes. We demonstrate how coupled dissipation occurs in the membrane subsystems while coupled free-energy increasing or decreasing processes appear in the solution compartment subsystems. Each structural subsystem comprises elementary thermodynamic processes, including dissipation, free-energy change, and power conversions.

By implementing our model in Python, we provide free and open access to ensure that it is accessible and reproducible for future research in the field of membrane transport while allowing translation into appropriate modelling standards as supporting tooling becomes available. Our study demonstrates the advantages of bond graph modelling in describing complex systems and highlights the benefits of using circuit modules to represent local functions.
Overall, this study contributes to the field of membrane transport processes and, we believe, it provides a robust platform for follow-up in-silico research in this area.
